forward falco alerts (#1070)
falcosecurity/falco-website: content/en/docs/alerts/forwarding.md

---
title: Forwarding Alerts to third parties
description: Forward Falco Alerts to third parties
linktitle: Forwarding Alerts to third parties
weight: 30
---

> Falco alerts can easily be forwarded to third-party systems. Their JSON format allows them to be easily consumed for storage, analysis and reaction. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Falco alerts can easily be forwarded to third-party systems. Their JSON format allows them to be easily consumed for storage, analysis, and reaction. 
```

## Falcosidekick

> Falcosidekick is a proxy forwarder, it acts as central point for any fleet of Falco instances using their http outputs to send their alerts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Falcosidekick is a proxy forwarder that serves as a hub for a fleet of Falco instances, allowing them to send alerts to many other destinations.
```

The current available outputs are chat, alert, log, storage, streaming systems, etc. The exhaustive list can be found [here](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falcosidekick/tree/master#outputs).

![Falcosidekick](/docs/images/falcosidekick_forwarding.png)

> Falcosidekick can also add custom fields to the alerts, filter by priority and it exposes a prometheus endpoint for metrics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Falcosidekick can also add custom fields to the alerts, filter them by priority and expose a Prometheus metrics endpoint.
```

> The full documentation and the repository of the project are [here](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falcosidekick).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The full documentation and the project repository are [here](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falcosidekick).
```

Falcosidekick can be deployed with Falco in Kubernetes clusters with the official Falco [Helm chart](https://github.com/falcosecurity/charts).

Its configuration can be made through a yaml file and/or env vars.

### Installation in Kubernetes with Helm

See the available [Helm values](https://github.com/falcosecurity/charts/blob/master/falcosidekick/values.yaml) to configure Falcosidekick. 

```shell
helm install falco falcosecurity/falco \
-n falco --create-namespace \
--set falcosidekick.enabled=true \
--set tty=true 
```

### Installation in Docker

Use the env vars to configure Falcosidekick.

```shell
docker run -d -p 2801:2801 -e SLACK_WEBHOOKURL=XXXX falcosecurity/falcosidekick:2.27.0
```

### Installation on the host

> Adapt the version and the architecture to your environment, you can find all the releases [here](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falcosidekick/releases).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Adapt the version and the architecture to your environment. You can find all the releases [here](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falcosidekick/releases).
```

```shell
sudo mkdir -p /etc/falcosidekick
wget https://github.com/falcosecurity/falcosidekick/releases/download/2.27.0/falcosidekick_2.27.0_linux_amd64.tar.gz && sudo tar -C /usr/local/bin/ -xzf falcosidekick_2.27.0_linux_amd64.tar.gz
```

See the example config file to create your own in `/etc/falcosidekick/config.yaml`.

To enable and start the service, you can use a systemd unit `/etc/systemd/system/falcosidekick.service` like this one:
```shell
[Unit]
Description=Falcosidekick
After=network.target
StartLimitIntervalSec=0

[Service]
Type=simple
Restart=always
RestartSec=1
ExecStart=/usr/local/bin/falcosidekick -c /etc/falcosidekick/config.yaml
EOF
```

```shell
systemctl enable falcosidekick
systemctl start falcosidekick
```

## Falcosidekick UI

Falcosidekick comes with its own interface to visualize the events and get statistics.

![Falcosidekick UI](/docs/images/falcosidekick_forwarding_ui_1.png)

### Installation in Kubernetes with Helm

> The installation is made at same moment than Falcosidekick by adding the argument `--set falcosidekick.webui.enabled=true`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can install the UI at the same moment as Falcosidekick by adding the argument `--set falcosidekick.webui.enabled=true`
```

```shell
helm install falco falcosecurity/falco \
-n falco --create-namespace \
--set falcosidekick.enabled=true \
--set falcosidekick.webui.enabled=true \
--set tty=true 
```

> Then creates a port-forward to access to it: `kubectl port-forward svc falco-falcosidekick-ui 2802:2802 -n falco`. The default credentials are `admin/admin`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then create a port-forward to access it: `kubectl port-forward svc falco-falcosidekick-ui 2802:2802 -n falco`. The default credentials are `admin/admin`.
```
